# Project Description
Concordance of microarray and RNA-Seq differential gene expression is the third group project in BF528. In this individual project, I am taking the Data Curator and Programmer roles which I did not play before in project 3. Analyses are performed on toxogroup 6. 
<br/>
The goal of this project is to reproduce part of the results of the study *A comprehensive study design reveals treatment- and transcript abundance–dependent concordance between RNA-seq and microarray data* conducted by Wang et al, and to learn and practice using modern bioinformatics tools in differential expression analyses. <br/>
<br/>
The objective of the original study is to evaluate the similarities and differences between RNA-Seq and microarray platforms in terms of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) identification and the accuracy of predictive models generated from these two platforms. In this project, I performed RNA-Seq read alignment, quality control of raw sequencing data and alignment results, read summarization, and differential expression analysis. <br/>
<br/>

<br/>
Wang, Charles, Binsheng Gong, Pierre R. Bushel, Jean Thierry-Mieg, Danielle Thierry-Mieg, Joshua Xu, Hong Fang, et al. 2014. “A comprehensive study design reveals treatment- and transcript abundance–dependent concordance between RNA-seq and microarray data” Nature Biotechnology 32 (9): 926–32. PMID: 4243706

# Repository Contents
## Data Curator
### project_5_environment.txt
Miniconda environment for the data curator part of this project. 

### project_5_environment_human.txt
Miniconda environment for the data curator part of this project, in human readable format. 

### scripts
- `programmer.R` R script for combining count matrices and DE analysis <br/>
- `run_fastqc.qsub` qsub script for running FastQC on raw reads <br/>
- `run_fc.qsub` qsub script for running featureCounts <br/>
- `run_multiqc.sh` shell script for running MultiQC. Running this in batch did not work. <br/>
- `run_star.qsub` qsub script for running STAR aligner <br/>

### bam_files
9 bam files containing alignments for each of the treatment samples

### DESeq2_res
DE results generated by DESeq2

### count_matrix.txt
A comma-delimited text file containing the concatenated counts matrix

### multiqc_reports
html reports generated by MultiQC

### Project 5 Zhiyu Zhang.pdf
Project report. All required plots are included in the report.
